To train our CycleGAN,
we'll train our discriminators first and then the generators.
Let's take D_X as an example.
We'll first see how this performs on classifying real images.
Then, generate some fake images and compute the fake loss for D_X.
Then, we'll add up the real and fake loss components to get
the total D_X loss and perform backpropagation and optimization as usual.
Then, you just have to repeat these steps only applying them
to train D_Y on real and fake Y images.
When you get to the code, don't forget to
zero-out your accumulated optimizer gradients at the start of training.
Then, you'll move on to training the generators.
Our generators take in real images as input and create generated fake images as output.
So, as an example, let's start with our generator G_Y to X.
As a first step for training,
we'll generate images that look like they've come from domain X,
based on real images in domain Y.
So, we'll have fake X generated images.
Then, you can compute the generators loss based on how
our discriminator D_X responds to this fake X.
Recall that our generator will have an adversarial loss function,
which means that it wants its fake X to be
classified as real images by our discriminator D_X.
After passing this fake X to our discriminator, next,
you'll calculate the reconstruction loss or cycle consistency loss.
You'll generate reconstructed Y images
based on the fake images generated in the first step.
So, you'll be passing these fake X through
our other generator to create a reconstructed Y.
Then, you can calculate the cycle consistency loss by
comparing the reconstructions with the real Y images.
At this point, you'll also have to decide on a value for
the Lambda weight parameter in our cycle consistency loss function.
Then, you'll repeat this whole process doing
the same thing only for our generator G_X to Y.
You'll calculate its adversarial loss and we'll get real X and reconstructed X images.
Finally, you'll add up all of these losses,
so two adversarial generator losses and two reconstruction losses.
This will give you your total generator loss.
Then, you can perform backpropagation and optimization as usual.
Now, all of these steps are also described in comments in the training loop,
so you'll know which steps to complete in this training exercise.
Below this long cell,
you'll also see some tips for training.
Basically, since these networks are acting as adversaries,
you should see that there's always some level of discriminator loss.
We'll print out the losses for each discriminator and the total generator loss.
The generator loss is expected to start out much
higher since it's the larger weighted summation of terms,
but it should also see the biggest decrease at the start of training.
If your loss isn't decreasing as you expect,
or if it's jumping around a lot,
this could mean that it's time to tweak
your hyperparameters or change how you're weighting and calculating loss terms,
and you always have the solution code to consult.
I should also note that CycleGANs take quite awhile to train,
often overnight or for several hours for larger images.
In this case, I recommend training for about 1,000 iterations or
less to get results that allow you to see the power of this kind of model,
but that are not perfect.
So, our goal is not to create perfect transformations, instead,
it's really to visualize what this unsupervised approach has
learned about the distribution of summer and winter images.